% Writing from within

In a composition class, I would   
actually do little writing in     
class, unless it were in a        
computer lab. I would however     
have the students in week 4, 9,   
13 and 18 spend the whole of the  
class time writing essays,        
effectively converting the        
midterm and final exams into      
informal writing-in-class         
experiences. As a result, I would 
have 4 tests in my assessment     
schedule (instead of the          
traditional 2). Each test would   
be worth 10 points for a total of 
40 percent of the grade.          
                                  
Instead of having students write  
in class, I would assign writing  
homework each week, having them   
write an assessed essay in a      
notebook every second week and    
write to a class wiki (as at      
<http://momotaro.chinmin.edu.tw/k 
wiki/NewsPaper/index.cgi)>,       
in alternate weeks. Each of these 
essays would be worth 5 points    
for a total of 40 percent of the  
grade. The homework thus would    
have equivalent weight to that of 
the exams. Traditionally,         
homework contributes much less to 
the grade.                        
                                  
The final 20 percent would be for 
classwork and wiki writing. The   
reason I wouldn\'t do much        
writing in class, at least with   
lower-level students, is that     
with them, I have never been      
successful in a process approach  
in my classes, even though I      
believe it is theoretically the   
correct way to teach composition. 
                                  
I rationalized this failure as    
due to the difference between the 
view of writing as watercolor     
painting (Chinese painting) and   
the view of writing as oil        
painting (Western painting). My   
students saw their work as        
unretouchable and uneditable, as  
accomplished, as unanalyzable. It 
was easier to write a new essay,  
than to rewrite an old essay. It  
was easier for them to write an   
essay, than to read each others\' 
essays! This inversion of the     
usual situation where it is       
easier for you, the reader to     
read this, than it is for me, the 
writer to write it, makes the     
process approach very hard to     
institute.                        
                                  
In some situations, I was able to 
get the students to read each     
others\' essays, as for example   
when the topic was very           
interesting and personal, or the  
class was a new one and the       
students didn\'t know each other  
very well. However, this was      
unsustainable over the long term. 
This was disappointing for me.    
                                  
That doesn\'t mean I don\'t enjoy 
teaching composition, however. I  
perhaps enjoy it even more than   
teaching conversation. I find     
writing very interesting. I enjoy 
writing in English, but do none   
in my second languages! The       
challenge is to make writing in   
English interesting for my        
students and to get them to think 
about personal issues.            
                                  
The way writing differs from      
conversation is that there is     
more time to think and more       
distance from the                 
listener/reader. I take the       
writing class as an opportunity   
for my students to think about    
who they are and where they are   
going and to communicate their    
reflections in a foreign          
language. English is a language   
which is not native to them and   
which thus frees them to some     
extent from the rules and habits  
of thought and the constraints    
imposed on their expression in    
the first-language situation.     
                                  
Thus I would tell my students     
that I\'m interested more in the  
content than in whether they are  
writing grammatically. I would    
tell them grammar is important,   
but more important is what they   
say. Agreeing with Curtis Kelly   
that \'Writing from within\' is   
important, I would ask them to    
reflect on their own selves and   
to think psychologically.         
                                  
Influenced by Kelly\'s choice of  
topics, if given the free choice, 
I would start with \'interests\'  
in the first 4-week section.      
Students would write 2 essays in  
that period, one on their         
interests, one on their           
partner\'s interests. I would ask 
the students to say how their     
interests differ and why. With    
some of my students in the past   
having had difficulty identifying 
their interests, in the first 2   
weeks I would raise awareness of  
the sorts of interest which exist 
and get them to analyze why they  
like what they do, by asking them 
what they like about the thing    
they do.                          
                                  
With the first essay, I could     
identify who likes what and why   
and have students match 2 sets of 
cards, each one in the first set  
with an interest and each one in  
the second with the name of a     
student. In the second essay, I   
would expect the student to       
engage with the interests of      
his/her partner. I would grade    
the essay on the degree to which  
the student did this, as well as  
on organization/grammar and       
interest.                         
                                  
In weeks 5-8, I would move onto   
\'dreams,\' which students have   
probably less experience talking  
about and which is more personal. 
I would ask students to analyze   
why they had this dream, what     
they were doing now that was      
connected to the dream and what   
they planned to do in the short   
term and long term that was       
connected to the dream. I would   
grade the students essays on the  
degree to which they engaged with 
my questions.                     
                                  
In weeks 10-12, I would ask       
students to think about and to    
ask other people what they        
thought about them. This is even  
more personal, and perhaps        
stressful for some, so I would    
make sure positive feelings and   
views were expressed. This issue  
could also be developed into an   
approach to research methods,     
including such topics as the      
formulation of questions for a    
questionnaire and the writing of  
a research report with            
introduction, method, results,    
discussion and conclusion.        
                                  
In weeks 14-17, I would ask       
students to tell a story about a  
problem they were still in the    
process of trying to solve (or    
alternatively, had already        
solved.) I would ask them to ask  
other people for advice. I would  
ask their partners to give them   
advice. I would ask them to       
evaluate their solutions. This    
topic is one I haven\'t actually  
tried with a class yet. It is not 
in Kelly\'s Writing from Within.  
                                  
One activity that would be common 
to each of these sections would   
be self-evaluation of essays.     
Does their self-evaluation        
correspond to my evaluation of    
their essay? If it does, they win 
points. They fill out a form when 
handing in their essay to be      
graded. If they give themselves   
the same grade I give them, I     
give them points when I hand back 
their essay. This way I hope to   
encourage self-evaluation and     
reflection on the process of      
writing.                          
                                  
Another way I encourage attention 
to process is setting the same    
(or very similar) prompts in the  
exam topics in weeks 4,9,13,18 as 
for the homework. Students can    
remember what they wrote and use  
that memory to \'virtually\'      
rewrite or edit their earlier     
essays.                           
                                  
By having students write about    
themselves first and then about   
their partners later, a process   
which encourages them to read     
their partner\'s essay, I am also 
giving them the opportunity to    
approach writing as an iterative  
or recursive process, the         
distinctive feature of the        
process approach, I think.        
                                  
In the second semester, I would   
start teaching [IMRD              
Reports](http://www.unc.edu/depts 
/wcweb/handouts/lab_report_comple 
te.html)                          
and ask them to use this          
structure to do                   
[ActionResearch](http://momotaro/ 
HomePage/index.cgi?ActionResearch 
){.empty}                         
on their own language learning.   
                                  
At the same time, I would get     
them to write stories like this   
one of mine,                      
[MyMusic](MyMusic.html).          
