% Go Fish, a competitive classification exercise

In
[Go Fish](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_Fish)
you are collecting cards. The aim is to 
collect complete sets from other players 
or the pool.

You're supposed to give up cards if you 
have them and if other players ask for 
them. To avoid losing all your cards you 
need to keep what cards you have secret.

This is a problem if you have too many 
cards to fit in your hand. Some players 
will just make a grab for your cards and 
the game can degenerate into fighting 
over cards.

Played with a regular 4-suit deck with 
13 cards per suit, the aim is to collect 
the same 4 cards from the 4 suits, 
called a 'book'.

There are various rules for asking other 
players for cards, but generally not 
asking for all cards from a particular 
suit?

In the [Happy 
Families](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Happy_Families) 
version, a book is, eg, the four Mr and 
Mrs Bone, the Butcher and Master and 
Miss Bone cards, which form a suit. And 
the suits are various professions. You 
ask for suits?

I do it as a matching exercise. A 
matching A and B card make a book. There 
are 3 suits representing different 
vocabulary areas, and in each suit there 
are 8 pairs of cards, for a total of 48 
cards, almost the same as the number in 
a standard deck, but there is no concept 
of the same card over the 3 different 
suits. The aim is to collect pairs. You 
ask for all the A or B cards in one of 
the 3 vocabulary areas, which could be 8 
at a maximum.

The A card is a word and the B card 
could be a picture, a translation of the 
word, or a cloze sentence with a blank 
where the word could go. Actually, any 
matching exercise with a large number of 
items should work.

I like this activity because it frees me
from the restricting 
Elicitation-Response-Evaluation routine, 
which is like drawing blood from a 
stone.

See my perl flash card script
[https://github.com/drbean/ttb/trunk/cards/flash.pl](https://github.com/drbean/ttb/trunk/cards/flash.pl)

Back to [Games](Games.html)
