% 'LetterForKevin - Kwiki'

It quickly becomes obvious,
talking to Kevin, that his
English is very good. As an
example, the requesting of this
letter of recommendation. Having
told me two or three weeks ago
that he wanted me to write one,
yesterday he told me that he
needed it tomorrow. The fact that
he was able to do this completely
naturally, completely
grammatically and completely
politely testifies to his
ability.

On longer acquaintance, however,
one also sees that his
conversational English skills are
accompanied by listening and
writing skills of comparable
quality. I am not able to speak
for his reading skills as I never
taught him reading.

As for the source of these
skills, I am not sure. He has
told me he speaks English with an
English-speaking relative. He has
also consistently said his dream
is to be a translator.

Reflecting now on his qualities
as I approach the end of my
acquaintance with him, my only
wish is that he would have more
consistently applied himself.
Because of this he was not able
to match the high-performing
women in my classes over the two
years I taught this cohort.

Coupled with this English
ability, and offsetting the
relative lack of application, is
an engaging personality. He is
always pleasant, always
good-humored, always popular. It
was always good to see him.

I'm not too sure why he wants
this letter of recommendation. I
think he intends to continue
studying. I wish him all the luck
in the future in whatever path he
takes, and without hesitation
recommend him for any position he
might seek to apply for. I cannot
praise him too highly.

For my letter of recommendation
policy, see
[WritingLettersofRecommendation](WritingLettersofRecommendation.html)

Saying goodbye to him, I am
confident that he can build on
the basis of the personal
attributes he has already
developed. I hope he becomes an
outstanding person in the social
arena and the path in life which
he chooses to follow, something
he has all the prospects of
achieving.

