% 'LetterForJessica - Kwiki'

May 25, 2005

To Whom It May Concern,

When I learned that Jessica
wanted to become a secretary, I
was disappointed. 'Oh, Jessica,
you're capable of more than
that,' I thought. But further
consideration of the role of a
secretary, someone who works on
behalf of another, led me to
realize that Jessica is
well-suited for what is a worthy
career.

In the English composition class
I taught, in which I tried to get
students to look within to create
goals for the future and to
understand what had happened to
them in the past, Jessica
consistently showed insight into
her own character and that of
others in her class. She was able
to say what made classmates and
members of her family tick, not
in a superior or demeaning way,
but a gentle and supportive one,
that reflected well both on who
she was writing about and on
herself. Such understanding of
psychology was unusual in the
class. Her ability to put herself
in other people's shoes both
made her stand out and at the
same time, I think, fits her for
the role of secretary, a role
which is as much interpersonal as
functional.

One particular essay, in which I
had asked the students to write
about their goals for the future,
especially impressed me. She
talked about her dream of being a
secretary, but more importantly,
she talked about her attitude to
learning after she left school.
The excitement she conveyed about
learning: 'Learn, learn,
learn,' she said, was
infectious. I suggested to her
that she use the essay, all her
own work I believe, as a
self-introduction. I felt that it
was far more impressive than the
usual artificial introduction
most students struggle over, even
with much outside help.

Last, I think I need to mention
Jessica's unfailing
cheerfulness. She always seemed
to have a smile for people. I was
sometimes a demanding teacher,
and some students had problems
with that, but Jessica never
complained. She just did the
work. It always raised my spirits
to see her come into class and
smile.

So, I heartily recommend Jessica
for any position as secretary she
cares to seek, most likely in a
foreign company, because her
English is good, of course, but
indeed anywhere that she can
continue life-long learning. I
believe, I hope, she will
accomplish much.

Sincerely,

Greg Matheson Full-time Lecturer,
Chin Min Institute of Technology
(E-mail:
<lang@ms.chinmin.edu.tw>)
