% LettersOfRecommendation for Dr Bean

-   A letter of recommendation
    from the chair of the
    Department of Applied Foreign
    Languages at Chinmin,
    Hsiu-feng Chou.

December 11, 2006

To Whom It May Concern: I
honestly and sincerely recommend
Gregory John Matheson to you as
an EFL teacher. He is
intelligent, hardworking,
creative, dedicated, and
energetic, both physically and
mentally. All his students love
him.

His intelligence is seen in the
flexibility and skill with which
he handles students. I believe he
has both a high EQ and a high IQ.
He is sensitive to people\'s
feelings, and is able to
influence his classes to get them
to do what he wants. This shows
his EQ. At the same time he is
good at devising different kinds
of learning activities that help
students, both high-level and
low-level, learn. This shows his
IQ.

He is extremely hardworking. He
is always in his office, even on
the weekend, working on the
computer, preparing something to
do with teaching and learning.
The amount of preparation he does
for his classes is phenomenal. He
seems to want to develop all his
own materials. He takes a lot of
pains with this work.

His creativity is shown by his
invention of various distinctive
kinds of classroom and homework
activities. He always seems to
have a new activity, and after
devising it and testing it out,
he changes it, or develops
variations on it.

He is dedicated. Teaching seems
to be his life. There appears to
be some deep emotional reason for
his devotion to teaching and
learning. Perhaps he has
converted an interest in learning
language to an interest in
teaching language. And he is also
energetic. It is hard to believe
he is 58. He acts like a man 10
years younger. He is always
rushing down the corridor, or
riding his bicycle around.

In addition to these qualities,
he is also unfailingly
good-humored. He is always
smiling and happy. We never see
him in a bad mood. Despite the
intensity with which he
approaches teaching, he is
easy-going. He gets on well with
other teachers, and doesn\'t
create problems for his
superiors.

Finally, he is knowledgeable
about applied linguistics, EFL,
English and computer programming,
even though he has no formal
qualifications in these areas.

In conclusion I recommend Gregory
John Matheson to you extremely
highly. I believe he will do
magnificently in any teaching job
he takes on.

Sincerely,

Hsiu-Feng Chou

Chair, Department of Applied
Foreign Languages

Chin Min Institute of Technology

(Email:
<jungle@ms.chinmin.edu.tw>)

-   Another letter from David
    Tung-ching Tung, ex-chair at
    Chinmin

December 9, 2006

To Whom It May Concern,

I heartily recommend Greg
Matheson to you.

Over the 7 years we have been
together at Chinmin, it has been
a pleasure working with him, as
his dean (now ex-dean), and as a
colleague, discussing English and
teaching.

He is an excellent teacher. He
has the ability and the will to
do the best job possible. His old
GRE score of 2270 shows that he
is intelligent. And he is always
able to think of new ways to
teach students. One interesting
activity he devised is the
ordinary multiple-choice question
quiz, which he converted into a
basketball game. But his goal is
always to get the students to use
English. For example, he
designates students each week to
grade the class\'s homework,
under his direction, so students
interact with him outside the
classroom.

He clearly thinks teaching
English is very important,
something that we should try very
hard to do. He is apparently
moved by some deep feeling, some
deep desire to teach. I can
remember on one occasion him
breaking down and leaving the
room when some students from
another department invited him to
a graduation party. He told me he
felt he had failed to teach them
adequately. He sets himself high
standards. This particular class,
like all his classes, apparently
thought he was a great teacher.
They loved him.

Despite his high standards, he is
very patient with his students.
He doesn\'t seem to be upset when
they are reluctant to speak.
Instead he encourages them and
creates a supportive environment
so they feel confident and are
not afraid to make mistakes. This
may be due to his background in
psychology, and a deep interest
in how people learn.

His students also think he is an
interesting teacher. Sometimes we
hear him singing in his class,
for example. Apparently, he likes
to sing.

If he is not teaching, he is
sitting in front of the computer.
He is an expert at using
software.

But, finally, his most memorable
characteristic is his
collegiality, his friendliness,
his openness. It has been a
pleasure, indeed an honor, to
call him a colleague and a
friend.

I cannot recommend Greg Matheson
to you highly enough. He is truly
an exceptional teacher.

Sincerely,

David Tung-Ching Tung

Ex-Chair, AFL Department,

Chinmin Institute of Technology

(E-mail: <twng@ms.chinmin.edu>.

-   Another letter from Peter
    Hsia, Associate Professor at
    Yuanpei

    May 18, 2007

To Whom It May Concern,

I recommend Greg Matheson to you
without hesitation.

I worked with Greg at Chinmin for
almost five years, as chair of
the department, and as a
colleague. I know that he is
capable of good work.

I always regret I was never able
to get him to write and to
publish research papers while I
was at Chinmin. I know he is
capable of doing research. His
period as a graduate student
shows that. He was also a copy
editor at a newspaper in Korea.
He is used to working with text,
editing it to make it convey the
message he wants. His status as a
native speaker also makes it easy
for him to write in English.

But he always told me he is more
interested in programming. He
spends a lot of time at the
computer, writing email and
developing programs for use with
his teaching. Teaching is
apparently more important to him.
He is interested in practice,
more than theory. Still, it would
have been good for him to publish
something on the classroom
activities he has developed using
the computer.

As for his personal
characteristics, I can confirm
that he is cooperative with his
fellow teachers. One time when he
and I were each teaching two
sections of a total four parallel
sections, I proposed to him we
set a common pass rate. He was
agreeable to this. We also
developed some common exams for
the four sections, for which he
contributed a few questions. I
think he is interested in joint
curriculum development.

Lastly, I believe he is a
reliable informant on English.
Although he is Australian, not
American, whenever I asked him
vocabulary and usage questions,
he was always able to give me a
good explanation.

I have great pleasure in
recommending Greg Matheson to
you. He will surely acquit
himself well in the teaching
position he takes on.

Sincerely,

Hsia Chung-shun, PhD

Associate Professor, Department
of Applied English, Yuanpei
University
