% 'LetterForSweety - Kwiki'

May 29, 2006

To Whom It May Concern,

When Sweety first asked me for a
recommendation letter, I refused.
She and Stella hadn't stood out
in the class. They didn't seem
very interested in writing about
their dreams or analyzing
themselves. Sweety was a quiet
student, never giving me any
problems in the class, but she
seemed diffident about
approaching me. I don't think I
ever talked to her more than once
or twice except through Stella or
another intermediary.

Despite this refusal, however,
something must have been kindled
in Sweety's heart (not of course
of my doing), because her
increased activity in writing for
homework and on the web through
the 6-8 weeks to the end of the
semester showed me that she could
do the work at the same time as
it convinced me that I could
honestly recommend her to anyone
unsure about whether to accept
her or not.

One particular essay about
cooking for her family stood out.
In an earlier essay, I had asked
students to ask their friends
questions about themselves. For
example, am I beautiful? Or, what
are my strong/weak points? In
this essay, I wanted students to
write about the shortcomings of
something they had made or
designed. She was the only one
who got other people to critique
the thing she had made. She very
carefully described what her
family thought of the meal and of
ways it could be improved. I was
very impressed by this essay, and
realized that although in
conversation she might not seem
to have much basic communication
skill or desire, in terms of
cognitive-academic language
proficiency, she was quite able.
I hope she is able to continue to
develop this proficiency, either
academically, or in the
workplace, in language, or
perhaps even more fruitfully, as
interpersonal action. On the
basis of this essay, I hope, I am
convinced that she has the
ability to acquit herself
honorably in these and other
activities she undertakes.

I heartily recommend Sweety Zhan.

Sincerely,

| Greg Matheson Full-time Lecturer,
| Chin Min Institute of Technology
| (E-mail: <lang@ms.chinmin.edu.tw>)
