% Marked by parents no respecters of persons

This incident must have happened
when I was about 7-8. One night,
proud of being a big boy.

My dad likes classical music a
lot, and I had looked at some
books about classical music that
he had. I read something about a
composer called Schumann.

I started to talk to my parents
about Schumann. But I pronounced
the word, \'skamen,\' rather than
\'shuman.\' I probably thought
that *sch* should be pronounced
as in the word \'school.\'

My mom and dad laughed at me. I
suddenly lost the feeling that I
was grown up. I had mixed
feelings about being laughed at.
In some ways, I liked them to
laugh at me. In other ways, I
didn\'t like them to laugh at me.

I think probably I also had mixed
feelings about being grown up. I
didn\'t think being grown up was
such a great thing, perhaps.

I think I lost interest in music
from that point until I became
about 19, when I started getting
interested in music again. I
wanted to get involved with new
music, however. I wanted to find
music that was different than the
music my father liked and other
people liked too.
