% Breaking matching exercise down, players aren't overwhelmed

How can card matching exercises be made 
easier?

With n cards in the prompt set and n in 
the response set, there are n^2^ ways 
one prompt card can be combined with 1 
response card, and 2n^2^-n ways any 2 
cards can be paired, if the distinction 
between prompt and response cards is 
ignored.

In the case that players have only a 
shaky grasp of any of the 
prompt-response relationships involved, 
to dump these 2n cards in their lap is 
the quickest way to lose them.

Better in this case is to give out only 
some of the 2n cards, and then exchange 
cards which match for more. If you do 
this, you want to ensure there is a 
match in all the hands the players 
receive to avoid frustrating them.

The way which requires least thinking by 
you to do this is to start with n+1 
cards. In any such set, there will be at 
least 2 cards which match. Otherwise, 
finding the the cards which match with 
these n+1 cards would require another 
n+1 cards, but you only have another n-1 
cards. QED

Then, when players successfully match 2 
of the n+1 cards, exchange them with any 
2 of the remaining cards, giving them 
another hand of n+1 cards in which there 
is again at least one successful match, 
for the same reasons.

But we can do better than this. It is
possible to feed players a starter 
set of 2 prompt cards and 2 response 
cards in which there is only 1 correct 
pairing, which they have to pick from 4 
possible prompt-response pairings, or 6 
possible 2-card combinations.

An even easier (the easiest) starter is 
3 cards, in which they have to pick from 
2 possible prompt-response pairings, or 
a total 3 possible 2-card combinations.

In exchange for the 2 cards which form a 
pair, they get 2 more cards which again 
creates a set of 4 (or 3)
prompt and response cards in which 
there is again only 1 correct pairing.

This process continues n-2 times until 
the last time, when they are fed the 
last 2 (or 3) cards, leaving them with 4 
cards with 2 correct pairings.

But doing this in actual classes is not 
practical unless there is an easy way to 
collate cards that doesn't require a lot 
of time or a degree in math to do.

One way to do this with n=4, with 
8 cards on a piece of paper, is as 
follows.

	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  A  |  C  |  a  |  c  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  B  |  D  |  b  |  d  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+

Cut out the 4 cards, A and B and b and d

	+-----+
	|     |
	|  A  |
	|     |
	+-----+    +-----+-----+
	|     |    |     |     |
	|  B  |    |  b  |  d  |
	|     |    |     |     |
	+-----+    +-----+-----+

B and b is the only pair, leaving A and d.

Cut off C and D (or alternatively) a and c.

	+-----+    +-----+-----+
	|     |    |     |     |
	|  C  |    |  a  |  c  |
	|     |    |     |     |
	+-----+    +-----+-----+
	|     |
	|  D  |
	|     |
	+-----+

D and d is the only pair, leaving A and C.

Alternatively, A and a is the only pair, 
leaving c and D.

The final 2 cards produce 2 pairings.

For the same n=4 case, with a 3-card 
starter, the cuts require even less 
thinking with this paper layout.

	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  A  |  C  |  a  |  c  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  B  |  D  |  b  |  d  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+

Cut 3 cards along one side of the paper 
for the 3-card starter, cut the 2 cards 
left off the end for the second feed, 
and give the remaining 3 cards (which 
could also have been the starter) for 
the last feed. 

The only problem left is keeping the 
cards separate and remembering which is 
the starter and which are feeds.

The n=8 case could be handled as the 
simultaneous playing of 2 n=4 exercises 
with an 8-card starter and 2 correct 
pairings for each feed, cutting 2 sheets 
of paper together, at the same time.

Alternatively, with 16 cards on 1 sheet 
of paper,

	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  A  |  E  |  d  |  e  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  B  |  F  |  a  |  f  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  C  |  G  |  b  |  g  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  D  |  H  |  c  |  h  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	
The first row,

	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  A  |  E  |  d  |  e  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+

produces the 4-card starter with E-e 
pairing, leaving A and d.

		+-----+-----+
		|     |     |
		|  a  |  f  |
		|     |     |
		+-----+-----+

produces the first (second) feed with 
the A-a pairing, leaving d and f.

	+-----+-----+
	|     |     |
	|  B  |  F  |
	|     |     |
	+-----+-----+

produces the second (third) feed with 
the F-f pairing, leaving d and B.

		+-----+-----+
		|     |     |
		|  b  |  g  |
		|     |     |
		+-----+-----+

produces the third (fourth) feed with 
the B-b pairing, leaving d and g.

	+-----+-----+
	|     |     |
	|  C  |  G  |
	|     |     |
	+-----+-----+

produces the fourth (fifth) feed with 
the G-g pairing, leaving d and C.

		+-----+-----+
		|     |     |
		|  c  |  h  |
		|     |     |
		+-----+-----+

produces the fifth (sixth) feed with 
the C-c pairing, leaving d and h.

	+-----+-----+
	|     |     |
	|  D  |  H  |
	|     |     |
	+-----+-----+

produces the sixth (seventh) and final 
feed with the H-h and D-d pairings.

Players get a lot of time to contemplate d.
You want to limit the time any one card 
has to remain in players' hands. Of 
course, the cards paired in the starter 
remain in the hand for the minimum 
amount of time.

Trying the 16-card layout again, with a 
different distribution of cards to get a 
more even movement of cards into and out 
of players' hands,

	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  A  |  E  |  b  |  e  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  B  |  g  |  a  |  F  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  d  |  G  |  C  |  f  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  D  |  H  |  c  |  h  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	
The feeds become:

1. A E b e, pairing E-e and leaving A b, 
   with E and e in the hand for 1 feed.
2. a F, pairing A-a and leaving b and 
   F, with A and a in the hand for 2 and 
   1 feeds.
3. B g, pairing B-b and leaving F and 
   g, with B and b in the hand for 1 and 
   3 feeds.
4. C f, pairing F-f and leaving g and 
   C, with F and f in the hand for 3 and 
   1 feeds.
5. d G, pairing G-g and leaving C and 
   d, with G and g in the hand for 1 and 
   3 feeds.
6. c h, pairing C-c and leaving d and 
   h, with C and c in the hand for 3 and 
   1 feeds.
7. D H, pairing D-d and H-h, with D and 
   d and H and h in the hand for 1 and 3 
   and 1 and 2 feeds respectively.

Which is better than the 7 feeds d was 
in the hand, and probably the best that 
can be achieved seeing at least one 
starter card will survive three feeds.

Feeding the cards in reverse order, ie 7 
to 1, looks to have the same properties 
as the 1 to 7 feed.

But this n=8 feed is not as robust as 
the n=4 feed.  So I folded paper boxes to 
keep the feeds in order.

The n=8 case with a 3-card starter is 
left as an exercise for the reader.

No, I'll do it myself. It's easy.

	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  A  |  E  |  a  |  e  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  B  |  F  |  b  |  f  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  C  |  G  |  c  |  g  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	|     |     |     |     |
	|  D  |  H  |  d  |  h  |
	|     |     |     |     |
	+-----+-----+-----+-----+
	
1. A E a, pairing A-a and leaving E, 
   with A and a in the hand for 1 feed.
2. e f, pairing E-e and leaving f,
   with E and e in the hand for 2 and 
   1 feeds.
3. b F, pairing F-f and leaving b,
   with F and f in the hand for 1 and 
   2 feeds.
4. B C, pairing B-b and leaving C,
   with B and b in the hand for 1 and 
   2 feeds.
5. G c, pairing C-c and leaving G,
   with C and c in the hand for 2 and 
   1 feeds.
6. g h, pairing G-g and leaving h,
   with G and g in the hand for 2 and 
   1 feeds.
7. d H D, pairing D-d and H-h, with D and 
   d and H and h in the hand for 1 and 1 
   and 1 and 2 feeds respectively.

No card remains in the hand for 3 feeds.  
That would require the previous feed to 
have been 2 cards which match.  2 
matching cards do appear in the last 
feed, feed 7.

See my perl flash card script
[https://github.com/drbean/ttb/blob/master/cards/flash.pl](https://github.com/drbean/ttb/blob/master/cards/flash.pl)

Back to [FlashCards](FlashCards.html)
