% Talking to machines

I\'m a language teacher. Teaching
and learning languages is
frustrating and very difficult.
No-one understands what I am
talking about, and I cannot get
them to do what I want.

Writing computer programs, on the
other hand, is rewarding and
enjoyable.

I CAN get my learners to do what
I want by writing classroom
applications and life is great.

If I am not teaching, I am at the
computer.

Teaching is similar to computer
programming. Can I get the
machine or the person to do what
I want, when they don\'t want to
do what I want? One is an
exercise in EQ (teaching) and the
other in IQ (programming).

Often I fail. This is
discouraging. Sometimes I
succeed. This is encouraging. Now
to fail this time is a sign that
I may succeed next time. This is
very exciting.

For this reason, I put programing
together with teaching. My
programs are all about my
teaching activities.

It would be terrible to be a
professional programmer. Not just
because the programmer is not
really interested in the real
world tasks that the program is
supposed to be achieving. But
also because, programming is not
an exercise in personal
relationships. (Although personal
relationships are important in
software engineering, because
most big software is constructed
by teams. Ironically, programmers
get to work more in teams than
teachers in schools, where the
teacher goes in Rambo-like to win
the war as an individual.)

So I combine the best of both
worlds. Programming is an
avocation.

Programming is also about
language. You use a computer
language to talk to the computer.

Some programmers are better than
others, but all programmers speak
computer languages as second
languages, even if they were the
creators of those languages.

So I think it is important to
study software engineering (the
development of computer programs)
to understand the teaching and
learning of second languages.

Since my losing of interest in
the academic disciplines of
applied linguistics and TESOL and
the activities of teacher
associations, this has been my
main source of inspiration for my
own teaching.

Me at
    <form action='https://mastodon.sdf.org/@drbean'>
    <button type='submit' class='btn'>
    <img src='./mastodon.svg'
        alt='https://joinmastodon.org/logos/wordmark-black-text.svg'
        style='width:100px;height:50px'/>
    </button></form>
    
Back to [HomePage](HomePage.html)
